docs: update readme with neovim lspconfig setup (#4134)
vuejs/language-tools: README.md

*Vue language client for coc.nvim*

[neovim/nvim-lspconfig](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig) ⚡ 🤝 \
*Vue language server configuration for Neovim*

<details>
  <summary>How to configure vue language server with neovim and lsp?</summary>

Since version `2.0.0`, take over mode has been removed. You have to run `@vue/language-server` alongside a TypeScript server that is running `@vue/typescript-plugin`. Here is a minimal configuration for Neovim's LSP to make the language server work after upgrading to version `2.0.0`.

  ```lua
local mason_registry = require('mason-registry')
local ts_plugin_path = mason_registry.get_package('vue-language-server'):get_install_path() .. '/node_modules/@vue/language-server/node_modules/@vue/typescript-plugin'

> 

Author: I would like to keep this part but as comment. This could save someone's few mins to figure out the path.

> 

Reviewer: It';s fine to keep the path variable, but maybe without mason?

local servers = {
  tsserver = {
    init_options = {
      plugins = {
        {
          name = '@vue/typescript-plugin',
          location = ts_plugin_path,

>           -- If .vue file cannot be recognized in either js or ts file try to add `typescript` and `javascript` in languages table.

Author: thanks for pointing that out that's a old comment from take over mode. I will remove it.

-- I assume everyone should have this configured already but just for reference
-- @see https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/blob/65a5ac404b56c4718d79f65ac642e19e89346eda/init.lua#L451-L522
Util.lsp.lsp_autocmd()

local capabilities = vim.lsp.protocol.make_client_capabilities()
-- If you need cmp
capabilities = vim.tbl_deep_extend('force', capabilities, require('cmp_nvim_lsp').default_capabilities())
mason_lspconfig.setup({
  ensure_installed = vim.tbl_keys(servers),
  handlers = {
    function(server_name)
      local server = servers[server_name] or {}
      server.capabilities = vim.tbl_deep_extend('force', {}, capabilities, server.capabilities or {})
      require('lspconfig')[server_name].setup(server)
    end,
  },
})
  ```

However, after version `2.0.7`, you can explicitly disable hybrid mode therefore there's two more options to config vue-language-server.

*Make sure you have typescript installed globally or pass the location to volar*

```lua
-- If you would like to keep only vue-language-server for all vue, typescript and javascript files you can have the configuration simliar with take over mode

> local servers = {

Author: This section is under `neovim/nvim-lspconfig`. So I think I will use `lspconfig[server].setup` and remove mason. Thanks

  -- tsserver = {},
  volar = {
    filetypes = { 'typescript', 'javascript', 'javascriptreact', 'typescriptreact', 'vue' },
    init_options = {
      vue = {
        hybridMode = false,
      },
    },
  },
}
```

```lua
-- If you only want to use vue-language-server for vue files and tsserver for typescript and javascript files
local servers = {
  tsserver = {
    init_options = {
      plugins = {
        {
          name = '@vue/typescript-plugin',
          location = ts_plugin_path,
          languages = { 'vue' },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  volar = {
    init_options = {
      vue = {

>         hybridMode = false,

Author: ops my bad

*Vue language client for coc.nvim*

[neovim/nvim-lspconfig](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig) ⚡ 🤝 \
*Vue language server configuration for Neovim*

<details>
  <summary>How to configure vue language server with neovim and lsp?</summary>

> Since version `2.0.0`, take over mode has been removed. You have to run `@vue/language-server` alongside a TypeScript server that is running `@vue/typescript-plugin`. Here is a minimal configuration for Neovim's LSP to make the language server work after upgrading to version `2.0.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration for versions:  `2.0.0` to `2.0.6`

Note: take over mode has been removed. You have to run `@vue/language-server` alongside a TypeScript server that is running `@vue/typescript-plugin`. Here is a minimal configuration for Neovim's LSP to make the language server work after upgrading to version `2.0.0`.
```

Author: I would not say the first config is only for `2.0.0` to `2.0.6` it still work in newest version and is one of biggest reason why version 2 exist. I probably state the config for version 2 and newer

  ```lua
-- If you are using mason.nvim, you can get the ts_plugin_path like this
-- local mason_registry = require('mason-registry')
-- local ts_plugin_path = mason_registry.get_package('vue-language-server'):get_install_path() .. '/node_modules/@vue/language-server/node_modules/@vue/typescript-plugin'

local ts_plugin_path = '/path/to/@vue/typescript-plugin'

local lspconfig = require('lspconfig')

lspconfig.tsserver.setup {
  init_options = {
    plugins = {
      {
        name = '@vue/typescript-plugin',
        location = ts_plugin_path,
        languages = { 'vue' },
      },
    },
  },
  filetypes = { 'typescript', 'javascript', 'javascriptreact', 'typescriptreact', 'vue' },
}

lspconfig.volar.setup {}

-- Auto cmd (LspAttach) to setup keybind, codelens, and formatting stuff
-- I assume everyone should have this configured already but just for reference
-- @see https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/blob/65a5ac404b56c4718d79f65ac642e19e89346eda/init.lua#L451-L522
  ```

> configuration for 2.0.7 or newer. (You can still use configuration above, `2.0.7` gives you more options)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration for versions: `2.0.7` or newer.
```

Author: Rather saying the config is for `2.0.7` state it as "hybrid mode config" would be more accurate.

```lua
-- If you are using mason.nvim, you can get the ts_plugin_path like this
-- local mason_registry = require('mason-registry')
-- local vue_language_server_path = mason_registry.get_package('vue-language-server'):get_install_path() .. '/node_modules/@vue/language-server'

local vue_language_server_path = '/path/to/@vue/language-server'

local lspconfig = require('lspconfig')

lspconfig.tsserver.setup {
  init_options = {
    plugins = {
      {
        name = '@vue/typescript-plugin',
        location = vue_language_server_path,
        languages = { 'vue' },
      },
    },
  },
  filetypes = { 'typescript', 'javascript', 'javascriptreact', 'typescriptreact', 'vue' },
}

-- No need to set `hybridMode` to `true` as it's the default value

> lspconfig.volar.setup {}

Reviewer: This change would have to be submitted to https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig. Code above just uses configuration from lspconfig.

> lspconfig.volar.setup {}

Reviewer 2: Good to know, thanks!

*Vue language client for coc.nvim*

[neovim/nvim-lspconfig](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig) ⚡ 🤝 \
*Vue language server configuration for Neovim*

<details>
  <summary>How to configure vue language server with neovim and lsp?</summary>

## Configuration for versions:  `^2.0.0`

Note: take over mode has been removed. You have to run `@vue/language-server` alongside a TypeScript server that is running `@vue/typescript-plugin`. Here is a minimal configuration for Neovim's LSP to make the language server work after upgrading to version `2.0.0`.

  ```lua
-- If you are using mason.nvim, you can get the ts_plugin_path like this
-- local mason_registry = require('mason-registry')
-- local ts_plugin_path = mason_registry.get_package('vue-language-server'):get_install_path() .. '/node_modules/@vue/language-server/node_modules/@vue/typescript-plugin'

local ts_plugin_path = '/path/to/@vue/typescript-plugin'

local lspconfig = require('lspconfig')

lspconfig.tsserver.setup {
  init_options = {
    plugins = {
      {
        name = '@vue/typescript-plugin',

>         location = ts_plugin_path,

Reviewer 3: As I said at https://github.com/vuejs/language-tools/issues/3925#issuecomment-1987733530, specifying location as @vue/language-server path should be able to directly reference @vue/language-server on which it depends. @vue/typescript-plugin, users do not need to install @vue/typescript-plugin globally and can ensure that it is the same version.

Does the documentation not suggest this because it doesn't work for you?

Author: Ops missed that, yes just tried and it worded. Thanks!

Reviewer: @johnsoncodehk With both `@vue/language-server` and `@vue/typescript-plugin` installed globally (pnpm) there is nothing in `/Users/gegoune/.pnpm-global/5/node_modules/@vue/language-server/node_modules`. Doesn't that mean that I need to specify path to `/Users/gegoune/.pnpm-global/5/node_modules/@vue/typescript-plugin` in `location`?

Author: You should be fine with `npm install` I think pnpm uses it link magic so there's no `.../@vue/language-server/node_modules`

        languages = { 'vue' },
      },
    },
  },
  filetypes = { 'typescript', 'javascript', 'javascriptreact', 'typescriptreact', 'vue' },
}

lspconfig.volar.setup {}

-- Auto cmd (LspAttach) to setup keybind, codelens, and formatting stuff
-- I assume everyone should have this configured already but just for reference
-- @see https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/blob/65a5ac404b56c4718d79f65ac642e19e89346eda/init.lua#L451-L522
  ```

> ### Hybrid mode(similar to takeover mode) configuration (Requires `@vue/language-server` version `^2.0.7`)

Reviewer 3: Here says the opposite:
Disabling Hybrid Mode means that TS/CSS/HTML language support in .vue files is provided by @vue/language-server.
Enabling Hybrid Mode means that TS support within .vue files is provided by tsserver + @vue/typescript-plugin, CSS/HTML support is still provided by @vue/language-server,
If you want the behavior of v1 takeover mode, you actually need to disable Hybrid Mode.

Author: Yeah I realized that, my brain does not work properly atm

  ```lua
-- If you are using mason.nvim, you can get the ts_plugin_path like this
-- local mason_registry = require('mason-registry')
-- local ts_plugin_path = mason_registry.get_package('vue-language-server'):get_install_path() .. '/node_modules/@vue/language-server/node_modules/@vue/typescript-plugin'

local ts_plugin_path = '/path/to/@vue/typescript-plugin'

local lspconfig = require('lspconfig')

lspconfig.tsserver.setup {
  init_options = {
    plugins = {
      {
	name = '@vue/typescript-plugin',
	location = ts_plugin_path,
	languages = { 'vue' },
      },
    },
  },
  filetypes = { 'typescript', 'javascript', 'javascriptreact', 'typescriptreact', 'vue' },
}

lspconfig.volar.setup {}

-- Auto cmd (LspAttach) to setup keybind, codelens, and formatting stuff
-- I assume everyone should have this configured already but just for reference
-- @see https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/blob/65a5ac404b56c4718d79f65ac642e19e89346eda/init.lua#L451-L522
  ```

> configuration for 2.0.7 or newer. (You can still use configuration above, `2.0.7` gives you more options)

Reviewer: I really think having a single configuration for latest version is the best option. It will only get older and older with barely anyone not using latest version.

Also, what other options? :)

*Make sure you have typescript installed globally or pass the location to volar*

```lua
-- If you would like to keep only vue-language-server for all vue, typescript and javascript files you can have the configuration simliar with take over mode
local lspconfig = require('lspconfig')

-- lspconfig.tsserver.setup {}
lspconfig.volar.setup {
  filetypes = { 'typescript', 'javascript', 'javascriptreact', 'typescriptreact', 'vue' },
  init_options = {
    vue = {

>       -- Turn the hybrid mode on so you do not need to run tsserver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- `hybridMode` provides same functionality as `tsserver` with `@vue/typescript-plugin` plugin.
-- If `hybridMode` is set to `true` `Volar` will run embedded `tsserver` therefore there is no need to run it separately.
```

Is that correct? If so, maybe description like that could be more useful?

Reviewer: Or even state something like that and say that there are two ways of running `Volar`, with and without additional `tsserver` and then provide two configurations just like you are doing here.
